.Dd October 1, 2000
.Dt sf_misc 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm eq ,
.Nm ecq
.Nd string equality test.
.Pp
.Nm countchar ,
.Nm countchar2 ,
.Nm countstr
.Nd count characters and strings within the string.
.Pp
.Nm replace ,
.Nm replace_detach ,
.Nm limittextwidth
.Nd miscellaneous text functions.
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <strfunc.h>
.Pp
Equality test:
.Ft int
.Fn eq "const char *a" "const char *b"
.Pp
Case-insensitive equality test:
.Ft int
.Fn ecq "const char *a" "const char *b"
.Pp
Count the number of specified character within the string:
.Ft int
.Fn countchar "const char *string" "char what2countChar"
.Pp
Count the number of specified characters within the string:
.Ft int
.Fn countchar2 "const char *string" "char *what2countSet"
.Pp
Count the number of specified little strings within the big string:
.Ft int
.Fn countstr "const char *string" "char *what2countString"
.Pp
Replace the substring:
.Ft char *
.Fn replace "char *string", "char *what" "char *to"
.Ft char *
.Fn replace_detach
.Pp
Limit text width by inserting line breaks:
.Ft char *
.Fn limittextwidth "char *text", "size_t width"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn eq
and
.Fn ecq
function are just short names for
.Xr !strcmp 3
and 
.Xr !strcasecmp 3
.Pp
.Fn countchar
and
.Fn countchar2
both used to compute the number of specified character's occurences within
the specified string.
.Fn countstr
used to compute the number of little string's occurences within the big
string.
.Pp
.Fn replace
replaces the occurences of string
.Ar what
to the specified string
.Ar to
and able to do it when invoked recursive. The string is stored inside the
library and if you want it to be completely yours, call
.Fn replace_detach .
.Pp
.Fn limittextwidth
ALTERS the source string, inserting the newlines ('\en') to break the long
lines. Long line is the line which is more then
.Ar width
characters in length.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr strfunc 3 ,
.Xr sf_cgi 3 ,
.Xr sf_mime 3 ,
.Xr sf_fmt 3 ,
.Xr sf_mem 3 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Lev Walkin <vlm@spelio.net.ru>
