.Dd December 4, 2000
.Dt sf_file 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm initfdpos ,
.Nm initFILEpos ,
.Nm adjfdpos ,
.Nm adjFILEpos
.Nd file positions indicator handling
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd #include <stdio.h>
.Fd #include <strfunc.h>
.Pp
.Ft int
.Fn initfdpos "const char *fname" "int stream" "const char *ext"
.Ft int
.Fn initFILEpos "const char *fname" "FILE *stream" "const char *ext"
.Ft int
.Fn adjfdpos "int stream" "int posfd" "int doSync"
.Ft int
.Fn adjFILEpos "FILE *stream" "int posfd" "int doSync"
.Pp
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Those functions are used to maintain a file positions indicator between the
program sessions. This is often needed when a process is being parsed a log
file and tries to save current position within this log to start from this
point later.
.Pp
.Ft int
.Fn initfdpos "const char *fname" "int stream" "const char *ext"
creates a position indicator file "<fname>.<ext>", and
returns its file descriptor. If the position file is already exists,
then it advances
.Em stream's
position according to the information derived from that file.
.Nm initfdpos
also checks the file size and inode changes in order to be robust
in situations when file shrinked or replaced.
.Pp
.Ft int
.Fn initFILEpos
is almost the same except that it takes a
.Em FILE *
argument instead of plain file descriptor.
.Pp
Both functions returns position file descriptor, or -1 in case of failure.
.Pp
.Ft int
.Fn adjfdpos "int stream" "int posfd" "int doSync"
and
.Fn adFILEdpos
writes the current position within the file referenced by
.Em stream
into the
.Em posfd .
If
.Em doSync
is not zero, it also does
.Xr fsync 2 .

Return values: 0 (Success) or -1 in case of any errors.

.Pp
.Sh EXAMPLE
.Bd -literal
void main() {
	int posfd;
	FILE *logfile;
	char buf[1042];

	logfile = fopen("file.log", "r");
	if(!logfile)
		exit(EX_NOINPUT);

	while(fgets(buf, sizeof(buf), logfile)) {
		/* Do something ... */

		adjFILEpos(logfile, posfd, 0);
	};

	/* Force data to be flushed on disk. */
	adjFILEpos(logfile, posfd, 1);
	fclose(logfile);
	close(posfd);
};
.Ed
.Pp
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr strfunc 3 .
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Lev Walkin <vlm@spelio.net.ru>
